# Moderator: A Declarative Chatbot Framework built with Rx and FRP


## The Short and Skinny

For those interested in just diving into the framework, here this is. One week
ago I started a new framework to make building chatbots simpler with less boiler
plate code. It is inspired by two things: the Microsoft Bot Framework and RxJS.
I have recent experience with the Microsoft Bot Framework giving me insight to
this particular need and all of its parts. A month ago I  discovered RxJS, which
introduced Functional Reactive Programming to me. As a result I felt that
marrying the idea of FRP with chatbots just makes sense and will make creating
them that much easier. Most of the work that has been done in this first week is
planning, design, management, etc. The project is still in its infancy. The base
skeletion for a proof of concept is in place, but it is several versions from
being used with channels like Facebook Messenger and NLP engines like Wit.ai.
Still the base skeleton for a proof of concept is in place and every week it
will get better.

The project can be found here: https://github.com/RayBenefield/moderator

You can find LOTS of documentation on different things in the docs directory
here: https://github.com/RayBenefield/moderator/tree/master/docs

For the Hello World example, check out this directory:
https://github.com/RayBenefield/moderator/tree/master/examples

The project management and roadmap can be found here:
https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1929223


My ultimate goal with this first week was to get something done and out there
and published. I've had side project-itis for many years and am forcing myself
out of my shell by not over thinking, but instead over doing. So even if many
people don't see this, I've still made a major personal leap. If you are reading
this, thank you very much for your time. I hope you are at least interested
enough to keep an eye on this project as it grows.


## How I got there

Chatbots have been quite the buzz this year, and with that buzz has come a bit
of exploration into the space with numerous options that have become available
out there. Between platforms that provide NLP engines [like Wit.ai, Api.ai,
Luis, etc.] to platforms that provide an entire chatbot solution including a GUI
to build conversations, bot management, NLP, and publishing, there has been no
limit to the emerging tech in this space.

When I began to investigate chatbot platforms that were out there I did find
anything that really matched or exceeded my expectations. As a developer, I
wanted more control than full blown solutions offered (full GUI experience can
slow us developers down). The best thing that I encountered was Microsoft's Bot
Framework. The Bot Framework provided a way to manage conversation structure,
context management, and messaging channel setup. But as I worked with the
framework, it felt like projects required a lot of boilerplate code. As time
went on, even with abstractions, the code was really difficult to reason.

And then I discovered RxJS.


## Stumbling onto ReativeX

On a side project I was working on, I started expanding my front-end skill set
with ReactJS [Which is awesome, btw]. Then I got to the point where I needed to
manage side effects. Through my research, I stumbled upon redux-observable by
one of the Netflix teams. That was my introduction into RxJS. I knew that
something like Rx existed, but I never had reason nor time to explore it until
discovering this through React about a month ago. It changed my perspective on
how code could be written and data managed completely. And then I thought about
it, the problem space that is chatbots is nothing but a stream of messages from
the user that is responded to, more than likely using asyncrhonous tasks. This
seemed like the perfect application of RxJS for me to sink my teeth into. So I
did.


## Initial Goals

The Functional Reactive Programming paradigm was a perfect fit for what I wanted
to accomplish. I felt that something like the Bot Framework could exist that was
extremely expressive, easy to reason, and contained very little boilerplate
replacing their waterfall system with a much more powerful stream system. The
beauty of declarative programming is that it states "what" you want to do rather
than "how", making this a perfect fit. This is the kind of code I wanted to see:

```js
const bot$ => bot$
    .say('Hello World')
    .askUntil(
        'What is your name?',
        messages$.filter(isValidName),
        'That name is not valid.'
    )
    .rememberLongTerm(({ entities }) => entities.name)
    .say(({ entities }) => `Hello ${entities.name}`)
```

For comparison sake, this is roughly how you would do it in the Bot Framework:

```js
const dialog = [
    (session) => {
        session.send('Hello World')
        builder.Prompts.text(session, 'What is your name?');
    }
    (session, results, next) => {
        if (isValidName(results.response)) {
            session.dialogData.name = results.response;
            next();
        } else {
            session.send('That name is not valid.');
            return;
        }
    },
    (session) => {
        session.send(`Hello ${session.dialogData.name}`);
    }
];
```


## Only the beginning

The above proposed solution just feels more natural to me and is so much easier
to read than what you would write in the Bot Framework. Not only that, you can
leverage the power of many RxJS operators. As a result the backend management of
the dialog is much simpler with streams. I've grown to like the chatbot space
and plan on writing a large chatbot for the Halo gaming community. I'll be
writing something for every minor version, so stay tuned as it grows. If you are
interested please feel free to follow along on the Github project above or keep
an eye out for future updates on various social channels. I think Moderator will
open up the accessibility of chatbots and allow powerful iteration for
developers. I'm excited for the future of Moderator. Thank you for your time.
Take care for now folks.
