# From Framework to Platform

7 months ago I started this framework, **Moderator**, in order to propose a more
declarative approach to building chatbots. I was never able to take more time to
build upon the framework. Recently I found a very valuable use case for chat
bots that I think is worth exploring. I also eventually realized that the name
**Moderator** would be great for the platform. So I'm shifting the focus of this
framework instead into a tool to use and build out the Moderator platform.


## The Beginning

So what will the **Moderator** platform provide as a service? Starts with my own
particular need that I discovered. A little over a year ago I was live streaming
coding sessions for a Halo project that I did last yaer. Something that I
realized was that I spent a lot of time answering questions. I plan on getting
back into live coding yet again, and was not looking forward to answering the
same questions over and over again. And then I realized I already know how to
solve this problem. I've been working in the AI chatbot industry for almost a
year now, why not just write a chatbot?


## AI as a Service

So Artificial Intelligence as a service is slowly becoming a thing. We see
platforms like Kasisto, API.AI, Wit.AI, Luis, AWS Lex, etc. popping up all over
the place to provide general chatbot creation. However all of these chatbots
were focused on Instant Messaging platforms like Messenger, Slack, Spark, SMS,
etc. But nothing has yet targeted Live Streaming platforms as a channel for
chatbots like Twitch, Youtube, LiveEdu (formerly LiveCoding), Beam, etc.
Currently these platforms rely on essentially command based chatbots like
Nightbot in order to provide supplemental features to the platform. But the
chatbot industry has moved on from commands and regex to trigger actions. Why
not bring Natural Language Understanding to these platforms as a whole?


## A Natural Natural Language Fit

Something that I realized about many chatbots is that they attempt to open up a
new channel of communication for services. Instead of calling into customer
support, you message the business's messenger bot. Instead of going to a portal
to access services, you ask a messenger bot to do a service for you. While this
is all well and good, it is trying to create a new section of a market and shift
consumers to using new interaction methods. This can be jarring for consumers.
Sometimes it is just easier for a consumer to open up and log into a website to
send money vs sending money by asking a bot to do it for you.

**Moderator** will be seeking a different goal. The streaming community already
talks with streamers through a text interface. They already ask streamers to do
something via a message. This is natural for that market already, so why hasn't
this been explored yet? It should be fairly reasonable to expect that when a
viewer asks the stream to change the song playing in the background, or to
answer a question that a bot has the ability to intercept and save the streamer
some time doing the task or answering the question for the streamer. Why should
viewers have to memorize the command list of a bot in order to gain access to
features? Viewers know what they want, it should be the bots job to decipher
that and do it for the viewer while freeing up the streamer to do what they do
best.
