# Moderator: A Declarative Chatbot Framework built with Rx and FRP


## The Short and Skinny

For those interested in just diving into the framework, here this is. One week ago I started a new framwork to make building chatbots simpler with less boiler plate code. It is inpsired by my experience with the Microsoft Bot Framework and based on me discovering RxJS about a month ago. The project is still in its infancy and is several versions from being used with channels like Facebook Messenger and NLP engines like Wit.ai, but the base skeleton for a proof of concept is in place.

The project can be found here: https://github.com/RayBenefield/moderator

Most of the work that has been done in this first week is planning, design, management, etc. You can find LOTS of documentation on different things in the docs directory here: https://github.com/RayBenefield/moderator/tree/master/docs

For the Hello World example, check out this directory: https://github.com/RayBenefield/moderator/tree/master/example

The project management and roadmap can be found here: https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1929223

My ultimate goal with this first week was to get something done and out there and published. I've had side project-itis for many years and am forcing myself out of my shell by not over thinking, but instead over doing. So even if many people don't see this, I've still made a major personal leap. If you are reading this, thank you very much for your time. I hope you are at least interested enough to keep an eye on this project as it grows.


## How I got there

Chatbots have been quite the buzz this year, and with that buzz has come a bit of exploration into the space with various options that are available out there. Between platforms that provide NLP engines like Wit.ai, Api.ai, Luis, etc. to platforms that provide an entire chatbot solution including a GUI to build conversations, bot management, NLP, and publishing, there have been no limit to the immerging tech in this space.

And yet, nothing felt quite right when looking around. As a developer, I wanted more control than full blown solutions offered (full GUI experience can slow us developers down). The best thing that was found was Microsoft's Bot Framework. The Bot Framework provided a way to manage conversation structure, context management, and messaging channel setup. But as I worked with the framework, it felt like a lot of boilerplate and as time went on, even with abstractions, the code was just really difficult to reason with.

And then I discovered RxJS.


## Stumbling onto ReativeX

On a side project I was working on, I started expanding my front-end skill set with ReactJS. Which is awesome btw. Eventually I got to the point where I needed to manage side effects. Eventually I stumbled upon redux-observable by one of the Netflix teams. That was my introduction into RxJS. I new that something like Rx existed, but I never had reason or time to explore it. But after discovering this about a month ago... it changed my perspective on things completely. And then I thought about it, the problem space that is chatbots is nothing but a stream of messages from the user that is responded to, more than likely using asyncrhonous tasks. This seemed like the perfect application of RxJS for me to sink my teeth into. So I did.


## Initial Goals

The Functional Reactive Programming paradigm was a perfect fit for what I wanted to accomplish. I felt that something like the Bot Framework could exist that was extremely expressive, easy to reason, and contained very little boilerplate replacing their waterfall system with a much more powerful stream system. The beauty of declarative programming just stating "what" you want to do rather than "how" seemed to fit perfect. This is the kind of code I wanted to see:

```js
const branch$ => branch$
    .say('Hello World')
    .askUntil(
        'What is your name?',
        messages$.filter(isValidName),
        'That name is not valid.'
    )
    .rememberLongTerm(({ entities }) => entities.name)
    .say(({ entities }) => `Hello ${entities.name}`)
```

For comparison, this is roughly how you would do it in the Bot Framework:

```js
const dialog = [
    (session) => {
        session.send('Hello World')
        builder.Prompts.text(session, 'What is your name?');
    }
    (session, results, next) => {
        if (isValidName(results.response)) {
            session.dialogData.name = results.response;
            next();
        } else {
            session.send('That name is not valid.');
            return;
        }
    },
    (session) => {
        session.send(`Hello ${session.dialogData.name}`);
    }
];
```


## Only the beginning

The above proposed solution just feels more natural to me and is so much easier to read than what you would write in the Bot Framework. Not only that you can leverage the power of many RxJS operators and the backend management of the dialog is so much simpler with streams. I've grown to like the chatbot space and plan on writing a large chatbot for the Halo gaming community. I'll be writing something every minor version, so stay tuned as it grows. If you are interested please feel free to follow along on the Github project above or keep an eye out for future updates on various social channels. I think this will open up the accessibility of chatbots and allow powerful iteration for developers. I'm excited for the future of it. Thank you for your time. Take care for now folks.
